Which of the following statements correctly describes the effect of light in a solar cell?, The light produces electron-hole pairs., The light causes pure silicon to become n-type silicon., The light increases the potential difference across the p-n boundary.
How does back emf affect a DC motor?,It limits the speed of the motor. , It reverses the current in the coil., It increases the torque of the motor.
Why was germanium used to make the first transistors?,It was easier to purify than other semiconductors., It was an abundant semiconductor., Its properties allowed for simpler circuit design.
An electric current flows in undoped silicon. Which statement about this current is true?,Equal numbers of holes and electrons are moving in opposite directions. , The number of electrons moving exceeds the number of holes moving., Equal numbers of holes and electrons are moving in the same direction.
Eddy currents are a major source of energy loss in an iron core transformer. What is one way to minimise this energy loss?,Laminate the iron core with an insulatort , Put fewer turns of wire in the primary coil, Operate the transformer with a higher current
Two parallel plates are 2 mm apart and have a potential difference of 100 V between them. An electron is placed halfway between the plates. What is the magnitude of the force on the electron?,8.0 × 10–15 N ,8.0 × 10–18 N, 1.6 × 10–17 N
Why are insulators poor conductors of electricity?, Insulators have a large energy band gap and a full valence band. , The valence bands of insulators do not contain any electrons., Insulators do not have a conduction band.
Why is the back emf induced in a motor greater when the motor is rotating faster?, The rate of change of magnetic flux is greater. , It takes a greater emf to spin the motor., More magnetic field lines are being cut per rotation.
A marble rolls off a 1.0 m high horizontal table with an initial velocity of 4.0 m s–1. How long will it take the marble to hit the floor?,0.45 s , 0.25s, 0.20s
What does the Maltese cross apparatus demonstrate about cathode rays?, They travel in straight lines., They consist of a beam of electrons., They are absorbed by a metal surface.
Which of the following is correct about the forces acting during a rocket launch?, The rocket engines exert a downward force on the gases being expelled. These gases exert an upward force on the engines. , The expelled gases exert a force against the launch pad. The launch pad then exerts an equal and opposite force on the rocket causing it to accelerate., The engines exert an upward thrust on the rocket. This thrust exceeds the downward force of the engines on the air.
What was Max Planck’s contribution to the development of quantum physics?, He hypothesised that the radiation emitted and absorbed by the walls of a black body cavity is quantised., He explained black body radiation and the photoelectric effect using quantised energy., He analysed the photoelectric effect and described light as quantised energy packets.
An astronaut working outside a spacecraft in orbit around Earth is not attached to it. Why does the astronaut NOT drift away from the spacecraft?, The accelerations of the astronaut and the spacecraft are inversely proportional to their respective masses.,The spacecraft and the astronaut are in orbit around the Sun with the Earth,The forces due to gravity acting on both the astronaut and the spacecraft are the same.
Which physical phenomenon allows current to flow through a metal wire?, Electrons in a partially filled band can carry charge through a wire.,  Charged atoms can move through a wire., Holes can move through a wire.
Which of the following best describes Galileo’s analysis of projectile motion?, A projectile would travel in a parabolic path because it has constant horizontal velocity and constant vertical acceleration., A projectile launched from the equator towards the east with a great enough velocity would orbit Earth., A projectile launched with a great enough velocity would escape Earth’s gravity.
What is the centripetal force experienced by the Moon due to Earth’s influence?, 2.0 × 10 20 N , 1.6 × 10 22 N, 4.7 × 10 26 N
Why did the Braggs use X-rays to determine the crystal structure of metals?, X-rays have a short wavelength. , X-rays can pass through metals., X-rays have a low frequency.
Why are spacecraft that are placed into orbit around the Earth generally launched in an easterly direction?, To use the Earth’s rotation to increase the spacecraft’s speed , To reduce the interference from the Earth’s magnetic field, To help slow down the spacecraft so it can go into orbit
Why is there low intensity of black body radiation at very short wavelengths?, There are fewer photons with high energy at very short wavelengths. , Only photons of very short wavelengths are reabsorbed by the black body., Photons of very short wavelengths interact with each other causing destructive interference.
Which of the following is an inertial frame of reference?, A train travelling at a constant velocity , A rocket during launch, A car turning a corner at a constant speed
A region of space contains a constant magnetic field and a constant electric field. How will these fields affect an electron that is stationary in this region?, Only the electric field will exert a force. , Only the magnetic field will exert a force., Neither field will exert a force.
Why is a magnet able to hover above a superconductor that is below its critical temperature?, The superconductor excludes magnetic flux. , The superconductor loses conductive properties when placed in a magnetic field., The eddy current in the superconductor creates a potential difference between the magnet and the superconductor.
What is the main cause of orbital decay of a satellite in low Earth orbit?, Friction between the atmosphere and the satellite , The interaction of the solar wind with the satellite, Tidal effects of the Moon
What is currently used to define the standard metre?, The speed of light , The signals from GPS satellites, The wavelength of light from a krypton lamp
A 60 kg object has a weight of 240 N on the surface of Planet X. What is the acceleration due to gravity on the surface of Planet X?, 4 m s–2 , 0.25 m s–2, 250 m s–2
Why is high voltage used to transmit electrical energy from power stations to users?, It minimises the effects of the electrical resistance of the wires. , It ensures that even with voltage losses 240 V will still reach the user., It allows the supporting structures to have smaller insulators.
Why does the electrical resistance of a metal increase as temperature increases?, Lattice vibrations increase; scattering more electrons. , Fewer electrons are free to move as they fill the holes in the conduction band., Electrons move more freely through the metal; unimpeded by the crystal lattice